## Philosophy {.page_break_before}

### Big Picture
* Science is hard, but it’s also exciting and fun. In the Rife Lab, we want to make sure that everyone experiences a positive, engaging, hostility-free, challenging, and rewarding lab environment.
* Work on what you’re passionate about, work hard at it, and be proud of it.
* Scientists have to be careful. Don’t rush your work--double and triple check it. Incorporate sanity checks. Ask others to look at your code or data if you need help or something looks off. It’s ok to make mistakes, we all make them, but mistakes shouldn’t be because of carelessness or rushed work. Talking to others is often the fastest way to get over a hurdle.
* Admit mistakes. Correct them and move on. If you do make a mistake, inform collaborators as needed.
* It is never ok to plagiarize, tamper with data, make up data, omit data, or fudge results in any way. Science is about finding out the truth, and null results and unexpected results are still important. This can’t be emphasized enough: no research misconduct!
* Support your fellow lab-mates. Help them out if they need help and let them vent when they need to. Science is collaborative, not competitive - especially in our lab where we’re working on different projects. Help others, and you can expect others to help you when you need it. Give credit to those that have helped you via acknowledgements and co-authorships.
* Respect your fellow lab-mates. Respect each other’s strengths, weaknesses, different cultures, religions and beliefs, respect their desire for quiet if they need it, and for support and a kind ear when they need that.
* Communicate open and respectfully with other members of the lab.
* If you’re struggling, tell someone (feel free to tell Trevor!). Your health and happiness come first. The lab looks out for the well-being of all its members. We are here to help. It’s ok to go through hard patches, but you shouldn’t feel shy about asking for help or just venting.
* Tension and hostility are barriers to research progress. We can’t thrive in an environment we aren’t comfortable in, and disrespect or rudeness will not be tolerated. If specific issues are causing problems, tell Trevor.
* If you have a problem with Trevor and are comfortable telling him about it, do! If you aren’t comfortable, then tell another member of the Plant and Environmental Sciences Department or administration at the Pee Dee REC.
* Academia may feel different from other types of jobs, but it is still a job. You should treat coming into the lab with the same respect that you would treat any other position. See Hours.
* Stay up to date on the latest research by using RSS feeds and/or getting journal table of contents. Also consider following scientists in the field on social media.

### Small Picture
There are a few day-to-day things to keep in mind to keep the lab running smoothly.
* If you’re sick, stay home and take care of yourself. Because you need it and also because others don’t need to get sick. Reschedule your meetings for the day (or the next couple of days) as soon as you can.
* Notify Trevor if you will be out, either due to illness or vacation. Make a note on the lab travel calendar.
* Take a vacation! Good science benefits from clear thinking. When going on vacation, make sure to fill out your leave requests through the appropriate system, notify Trevor, and make sure to put it on lab travel calendar.
* Keep track of your own deadlines. Everyone works on slightly different things and will have different deadlines. Be sure to keep an organized calendar system so you remember what you need to turn in and when.
* You aren’t expected to come into lab on weekends and holidays (follow the schedule for Clemson). You aren’t expected to stay late at night. You are expected to get your work done (whatever time of day you like to do it).
* Show up to your meetings, show up to your classes, and show up to lab meetings. Work the hours you need to work to get stuff done. Everyone is expected to be at all lab meetings unless you have an excused absence.
* Participate in relevant department and Pee Dee REC activities. These events are a good way to meet other scientists and help build camaraderie with your colleagues.
* Keep the lab tidy. Put lab equipment back where you found it. Keep common areas uncluttered.
* Dress code is casual but not too casual. When interacting with stakeholders or presenting your work, your attire should be representative of the impression you want to give. Don’t wear pajamas and sweatpants, but in most cases jeans are generally acceptable. Wear appropriate clothing for work in the field or greenhouse.
* Be on time. Especially when you are running experiments or leading meetings. Respect that others also have busy schedules and everyone’s time is valuable. If you will be late, notify others if you can.
* Be a good lab member, which includes helping with shared responsibilities, maintenance of a safe and clean space, and demonstration of respect towards personnel.
