## Code of Conduct {.page_break_before}

All members of the lab, including visitors, are expected to follow this code of conduct.
We expect cooperation from all members to help ensure a safe environment for everyone.

**The lab is dedicated to providing a harassment-free experience for everyone.**\
**We do not tolerate harassment of lab members in any form.**

### Harassment
The lab is committed to ensuring a safe, friendly, and accepting environment for everybody.
We will not tolerate any verbal or physical harassment or discrimination on the basis of gender, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, disability, physical appearance, body size, race, or religion.
We will not tolerate intimidation, stalking, following, unwanted photography or video recording, sustained disruption of talks or other events, inappropriate physical contact, and unwelcome sexual attention.
Members asked to stop any harassing behavior are expected to comply immediately.
Sexual language and imagery is generally not appropriate for any lab venue, including lab meetings, presentations, or discussions.

If you are being harassed, notice that someone else is being harassed, or have any other concerns, please contact Trevor immediately.
If Trevor is the cause of your concern, talk with one of the other members of the PDREC administrative staff.
For official concerns, please see the [Clemson University ombuds office](https://www.clemson.edu/administration/ombuds/index.html).

### Respect
You are expected to be respectful, tolerant, and non-discriminatory towards your colleagues both in the lab and at the university.
We adhere to all university policies on harassment and discrimination.
I expect lab members to contribute to a productive and friendly environment conducive to learning and research.
This includes treating your colleagues with respect, listening to others’ viewpoints and ideas, and ensuring the lab is a place where everybody feels welcome and appreciated.

### Scientific Integrity
All members of the Rife lab are expected to conduct research with the highest standard of rigor and integrity while upholding Clemson's [Standards of Ethical Conduct](https://www.clemson.edu/administration/compliance/standards-ethical-conduct.html).

You have a responsibility to me, the institutions that support our work, and the broader scientific community to maintain the highest standards of scientific accuracy and integrity while being a faithful steward of state and federal grant funds.
By being in the lab, you agree to adhere to professional ethical standards including accurate documentation of experimental design, results, and interpretation in a lab notebook.
You are obligated to be honest, trustworthy, and transparent in your scientific research.

It is also important that you prioritize the accuracy of your work.
Unintentional errors due to inattentiveness or rushing can be extremely damaging and produce results that turn out to be incorrect.
It is critical that experiments are designed to minimize error and maximize quality results.
Please double-check your work frequently and don't hesitate to ask a colleague to look over a dataset or analysis.

If you have any questions, or in the unlikely event that you have concerns about a research practice you have seen in the lab, please talk to me immediately.
If you are feeling pressured to succeed (publish a lot, publish in high impact journals, etc.), you should reach out to Trevor to discuss.
This pressure is something we all face but is never an excuse for research misconduct.

### Research Misconduct
The Rife Lab is committed to ensuring research integrity and we take a hard line on research misconduct.
We will not tolerate plagiarism, fabrication, or falsification.
These activities are unacceptable in any form, whether as part of course work or research activities.
Plagiarism and falsifying information have severe consequences including course failure, possible firing, or dismissal from the degree program.
Research misconduct is a disservice to you and risks your entire career.
It is never right and never worth it. Don’t do it.

From the [Clemson University Academic Integrity Policy](https://www.clemson.edu/academics/integrity/plagiarism.html):

> "Plagiarism, which includes the intentional or unintentional copying of language, structure, or ideas of another and attributing the work to one's own efforts" is absolutely not allowed, whether as part of course work or research activities."

From the [Graduate School Policy handbook](https://www.clemson.edu/graduate/academics/policies-and-procedures.html):
> "Fabricating or falsifying information involves actions such as making up data that were not collected, stating that studies were conducted that were not, indicating that original source material was read when information was obtained from secondary or tertiary sources, making up references not used, or identifying sources that were not consulted (e.g., telephone interviews)."