## Expectations {.page_break_before}

You are ultimately responsible for the success of your research project and career development.
As a member of the lab, you are expected to participate fully in the team and contribute to a healthy and productive research environment.
When disagreements about methodological approaches arise, you recognize that these should be resolved through a solid and reproducible analysis of available data.
If you aren’t sure — ask.
Members are expected to behave respectfully, ethically, professionally and safely while working within and outside the research group.
Mistreatment will not be tolerated.

### PI

* Maintain and communicate a vision of where the lab is going.
* Be accountable for the outputs from our research group.
* Give perspective on the field and tips about surviving and thriving with your research.
* Attend project and department meetings and pass on relevant information at lab meetings.
* Be available on a regular basis to discuss your progress (and anything else you’d like to discuss).
* Support your research (scentifically, financially, emotionally).
* Work with you to develop project ideas, provide guideance, plan experiments, and perform analyses.
* Provide timely feedback on ideas, conference posters, talks, manuscripts, figures, grants, applications, communications, etc.
* Provide training in written and oral communication skills, lab management, ethical research practices, and professionalism.
* Help you prepare for the next step of your career by discussing goals and tracking progress.
* Support your career development by introducing you to other researchers, promoting your work, writing recommendation letters, and letting you attend relevant conferences as often as finances permit.
* Maintain a healthy, fair, and productive work environment.
* Care for your emotional and physical well-being, and prioritize that above all else.

### Staff

* Contribute to guiding and developing the vision for where the lab is going.
* Develop, support and help manage current grant projects.
* Prepare and apply for grants to support lab interests.
* Develop training materials to help support lab activities.
* Serve as a reference to answer questions from new lab members.
* Oversee the hiring, scheduling, and training of undergraduate research assistants.
* Give new lab members access to electronic lab resources.
* Assist lab members with data collection and analysis.
* Be available on a regular basis.

### Postdocs

* Develop your own independent line of research (plan, design, and conduct experiments).
* Maintain legible and thorough documentation about your research including directories of data, annotated code, and detailed methods that are sufficient to reproduce results without additional instructions.
* Write and submit manuscripts. I expect postdocs to publish at least 1-2 papers per year (as first or co-author).
* Help train and mentor students in the lab (both undergraduate and graduate) when they need it.
* Participate in general lab responsibilities.
* Assist in proofreading of manuscripts and providing constructive feedback for other lab members.
* Help prepare grant reports for the projects that are providing your funding.
* Present your research at conferences and departmental events.
* Apply for external funding (either individual postdoc fellowships or contributing to larger lab grant writing). Though I will only hire you if I can support you for at least one year, it’s in your best interest to get experience writing grants.
* Apply for jobs when you’re ready. Let me know when you’re applying for positions so that I can support you and connect you with people that may be able to help you be successful with your applications.
* Challenge me when I’m wrong or when your opinion is different.
* Treat the rest of the lab to your unique expertise.

### Graduate Students

* Develop your dissertation or thesis research. A dissertation should have at least three substantial experiments that answer a big-picture question that you have. Much of your work has to be done independently, but remember that others in lab are there to help you when you need it.
* Write and submit manuscripts. Students should produce at least three publications over the course of their PhD.
* Plan, design, and conduct research projects, including establishing a timeline for when projects will be completed.
* Prioritize your research. Coursework is important, but your research gets you your PhD and prepares you for the next stage of your career.
* Maintain legible and thorough documentation about your research including directories of data, annotated codes, and detailed methods that are sufficient to reproduce results without additional instructions.
* Participate in general lab responsibilities.
* Help mentor undergraduate students in the lab when they need it
* Present your work at departmental events, other labs, and conferences when funding is available.
* Think about what you want for your career (academia – research or teaching, industry, science writing, something else), and talk to Trevor about it to make sure you’re getting the training you need.
* Make sure you meet all departmental deadlines (e.g., for your exams and thesis) -- and make sure Trevor is aware of them!
* Apply for grants (e.g., USDA or NSF predoctoral fellowship).
* Help summarize your results for grant reports and presentations.
* Bring questions or concerns related to enrollment, travel issues, visa issues, etc. to Trevor's attention.
* Understand the requirements for your graduation (todo link to other section)

### Undergraduate students

* Assist other lab members with data collection and analysis or work on your independent research project.
* Develop a weekly schedule with your lab mentor that allows enough time each week to complete your work.
* For course credit research, you must attend lab meetings, present at one lab meeting, and submit a write-up of your research by the end of the semester.

### Interns

* Develop your research project that was outlined at the start of your internship.
* Help other students in the lab when needed.
* Present your work during lab meetings, through publication, to other labs, and/or conference presentations.
* Help summarize your results for grant reports and presentations.
* Make sure you meet all departmental deadlines.
* Maintain accurate records regarding your research project so that your work can be replicated or continued.
* Attend lab meetings, present at one lab meetings, and submit a write-up of your research at the end of your internship.
* Understand the University rules for your working hour limitations (generally 20 hours/week during semesters).

### Visiting Scientists

* Develop your research project that was outlined as a part of your planned visit.
* Mentor undergraduate students when needed.
* Regularly meet with Trevor to report progress, present results, and discuss any concerns about your visit.
* Present regularly at lab meetings on your project results.
* Meet all deadlines regarding your visit and keep me informed of any information from your home institution related to your visit.