## Leave and Hours {.page_break_before}

### Leave
These guidelines are intended to cover logistics for planned time off (2+ days in duration).

#### Time Off Guidelines for Full-Time Rife Lab Members  
All full-time Rife Lab members are encouraged to take up to 15 days of vacation each year in addition to the 13 days of official University holiday (Martin Luther King Jr. Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Election Day, Thanksgiving (2 days), Winter break (6 days)).

* There is flexibility to our leave policy- contact Trevor to discuss extenuating circumstances.
* You are responsible for ensuring that your time off does not conflict with essential research activities, field data collection, satisfactory progress towards mutually agreed upon project goals, or maintenance of ongoing experiments or plants.
* There are no restrictions on time of year that vacation may be taken, but you are responsible for being aware and cognizant of internal/external deadlines, prior commitments, and field data collection in scheduling your time off. As a seasonally driven lab, sometimes the opportunity for data collection comes only once per year. If this applies to you/your project, please take this into account when scheduling time off.
* Notify Trevor of your plans to take time off at least two weeks in advance.
* You are not expected to provide a weekly update during a week where you are taking 3+ days off.
If you are taking 1 or 2 days off, plan to submit your update either before you leave or after you return.
* There is no expectation for Slack replies during your vacation.
* Urgent matters/emergencies will be addressed via phone calls. Only call a colleague who is on vacation if the matter is urgent and time sensitive. If you expect to be fully out of contact during your vacation, please designate someone able to make decisions on your behalf in event of emergency.

#### Other Leave
* If you are sick, you are encouraged to rest as much as needed. This does not count as vacation. This is being sick.
* If you are on parental leave, this is not vacation. This is being on parental leave, and does not count towards your time off.
* Religious observance counts towards vacation time. The Rife Lab closes for two weeks during the winter season beginning on the Winter Solstice (Dec 21). Time off for weekday religious holidays outside of this closure counts as time off.

### Remote Work

Work from whatever location best facilitates your ability to complete the duties of your job and supports your productivity.
There is no limit on work remote, as long as you are making satisfactory progress towards mutually agreed upon goals as determined by you and Trevor.
However, you are encouraged to make time for regular in-person interactions with lab members and department colleagues.

* You are responsible for ensuring that working remote does not conflict with essential in-person activities such as data collection and/or maintenance of ongoing experiments or plants. This includes identifying a colleague to water your plants while you are working remote.
* Remote work is to be scheduled around field data collection and/or lab experiments, not the other way around.
* If you are working from a different time zone, you are responsible for accommodating your work schedule around your Easter Timezone colleagues when necessary.

### Hours
Flexible working hours are a big benefit to working in an academic lab.
My primary concern is that you get your work done in order to complete both individual and group goals.
To promote communication and interaction, lab members are generally expected to be present (or remotely available) for the majority of normal business hours (9am-5pm, Monday-Friday), since this is when most academic activities occur.
However, I expect members to set a schedule for them that best facilitates their productivity and personal happiness.
Note that you may need to adjust your hours to complete specific tasks or work with partners (e.g., the PDREC farm crew works from 7am-3pm, meeting with international collaborators on projects, etc.).
Your schedule should include time to attend weekly lab and one-on-one meetings.
You are not expected to regularly work more than a normal 40-hour work week.

There may be rare times when your project requires working late at night or on the weekends.
If you are in lab by yourself on the evenings or weekends, make sure that someone (the PI, other lab members, or a family member) knows that you are there.
This is for your safety and the safety of others.

### PI Hours
I am generally available during the work day and prioritize answering Slack messages.
I am usually unavailable during the weekend, so ensure that I'm aware of any impending deadlines.
I will occassionally send emails or Slack messages outside of normal working hours--I do not expect you to respond to any messages outside of normal working hours.
If off-hours messages are unwelcome, please let me know.
In case of emergencies, contact me by cell phone at any time.