## Other Policies {.page_break_before}

### Reproducible Research
Reproducible research is an essential part of science, and an expectation for all projects in the lab.
Individuals unrelated to your research should be able to reproduce your results from your raw data and scripts.
Experimental design, analysis scripts, and pipelines should be well-documented and organized with extensive notes for each step.
An organized physical or electronic lab notebook is required to help document how and in what order activities were performed (pre-processing data, running models, statistical tests).
It is highly encouraged that you use version control (e.g., Git in combination with GitHub) to manage project development, facilitate long-term maintenance, and simplify code sharing.
The lab’s GitHub is https://github.com/RifeLab and new repositories can be created to host specific projects.

### Deadlines
Organization is vital to maintaining sanity in academia.
Disorganization and procrastination hurt you, your collaborators, and people whose help you need.
Collaborators should be notified as soon as a deadline is known.
It is appropriate and appreciated to remind collaborators (including Trevor) as deadlines get closer.

* One week: anything that doesn’t require a lot of time (e.g., reading/commenting on conference abstracts, filling out paperwork, etc).
* Two weeks: anything with a hard deadline that requires a moderate amount of time (e.g., a letter of recommendation, manuscript submissions, revisions, etc.).
* Three weeks: anything that requires multiple back-and-forth interactions between you and Trevor before a heard deadline (e.g., feedback on research and teaching statements)

### Recommendation Letters
Letters of recommendation are extremely important for getting new positions and grants.
With exceptions, I will generally only write letters if you have been in the lab for at least one year.
If you need a letter, notify me as soon as possible with the deadline, your CV, and relevant instructions for the content of the letter.
If the letter is for a grant, include your specific aims.
If the letter is for a faculty position, include your research and teaching statements.
In many cases, you may also be asked to submit a draft of a letter, which will be extensively modified, made more glamorous, and edited to add anything important that you left out.
While this process will likely feel awkward, it ensures that the letter contains all the information you need, and that it can be submitted on time.

### Vehicles
The Rife Lab is responsible for a state-owned Tahoe to be used to complete research and field activities.
In order to drive state vehicles, you are required to take an online training course.
The mileage log must be filled out whenever the Tahoe is used and turned in monthly.
Blank logs are available in the mail room.
For state vehicles, gas can be pumped on station.
There is a small receipt book kept near the gas tank where you can record your name, date, tag number, and number of gallons pumped.
If you have any questions about the gas key you should contact Sam.
The fuel card must be used for off-station fuel, along with a special PIN.
Contact Jenifer Lind if you believe you will need a PIN to get fuel.

### Noise Policy
Ensuring that lab members get along and want to spend time with one another is a critical aspect to developing a productive, friendly, and positive lab environment.
But I also realize that you are all very busy and want to have a place to focus and work quietly.
While we do not have specific quiet time hours, please respect other people's needs to work quietly in labs and offices.
If someone is wearing headphones, respect their desire for isolation (with obvious exceptions for emergencies). 
If you required additional quiet or privacy for specific work or projects, feel free to work from home, a library, or anywhere else.

### Old projects
If a student or postdoc collects a dataset but does not completely analyze it or write it up within 2 years after the end of data collection, the project will be re-assigned to another person to expedite publication.
If a student or postdoc voluntarily relinquishes their rights to the project prior to the 2-year window, Trevor will also re-assign the project.
This policy ensures that data and results are published but ensures priority is given to the person who initially collected the data.

### IP/Openness
Intellectual Property guidelines are handled in accordance with the instructions from our research sponsors and university guidance.
Lab members must follow the [Clemson Participation Agreement](https://ci.clemson.edu/assets/docs/ip/archive/Student%20Participation%20Agreement%20-%20For%20Use%20in%20Sponsored%20Course%20Projects.pdf) and the agreements with our sponsors.
These often allow, encourage, or require openness.
If you have concerns at any point, set up a meeting with Trevor to discuss these concerns.

### File Naming
Files shared over Slack or Email should include dates in the name using the `YYYYMMDD` format.
