## Onboarding {.page_break_before}

### Accounts
CCIT provides several guides and information for [incoming students](https://ccit.clemson.edu/support/new-to-clemson/) and [new faculty and staff](https://ccit.clemson.edu/support/new-faculty-staff/).
For the Rife Lab, members are expected to have accounts or sign up for the following:

* [Advanced Plant Technology Program Slack](https://slack.com)
* [GitHub](https://github.com)
* [Box](https://clemson.box.com)
* Lab Calendar
* Office 365

#### Slack
The Rife lab uses the Advanced Plant Technology Slack Workspace as the primary tool for internal communication.
The best way to get in touch with Trevor is via a direct message in Slack.
Full-time lab members should install Slack on their computers and/or phones; part-time lab members should check Slack regularly.
Try to keep each channel on topic, so that people can subscribe only to the channels that concern them.
For messages to one person or a small group, use direct messages.
If you have to send messages that include out-of-lab recipients, use e-mail.
You should feel free to ignore Slack on evenings and weekends.

#### OneNote
The Rife Lab maintains a shared OneNote notebook.
Each lab member has a separate section that will be used to track weekly progress between meetings.
These sections are self-managed by lab members but are generally structured with each weekly meeting being a separate notebook page.
Each week before your individual meeting, you are expected to add a page to your section and document your progress during the last week, goals for the next week, and any questions related to your projects.
While much of the content of these pages will be text, images, graphs, and other media are often helpful to include.
If Trevor is unable to attend the individual meeting, he'll annotate your page in red to give feedback.

#### GitHub
The Rife Lab uses [GitHub](https://github.com/rifelab) to store and share code and data with the world.

#### Calendars
The lab has a shared calendars with activities relevant for the entire lab.
This calendar is used to keep track of lab events, lab meetings, travel schedules, and birthdays!

#### Box
The lab has a shared Box folder that is used to store large amounts of experimental data.
The lab Box is also used to store documents and files for general lab use.
Lab members have a subdirectory in the Rife Lab Box share that should be organized by project.

### Website
New lab members are responsible for supplying Trevor with a photo and writing a blurb about themselves for the [lab website](https://rifelab.org).
These pages can be updated (or created) by members by forking the repository, making changes, and creating a pull request.

### Computers
Lab members are provided with a computer by request.
Please discuss your project's computing needs with Trevor to best optimize resource usage.
For interns and undergraduate students, these machines may be shared.
For full time lab members, the operating system should be reinstalled when a new member joins.

### Offices
Lab members will be provided with the necessary hardware to complete their work.
You are responsible for letting Trevor know what you need, including uninterruptable power supplies, external monitors, peripherals, and office furniture (e.g., desk, chair, etc.)

### Pee Dee REC
#### Keys
A key to the Pitner Center will be provided to each lab member.
If required, a key to the lab pesticide cage will also be provided.
It is the responsibility of each lab member to keep track of their keys for the security of everyone at the PDREC.
Do not share your keys or let anyone borrow them.

#### Gate Code
Every PDREC employee is provided with a unique code to the front gate.
Do not share your gate code with anyone.
If you forget your gate code, talk to Mandy.
If you are hosting a visitor who will be arriving separately, let Mandy know when to expect them and either meet them at the gate or give them driving instructions to the front of the Pitner Center.

#### Work Orders
Maintenance requests can be created by submitting a work order request using [this form](https://www.clemson.edu/cafls/peedee/employees/maintenance.html).
Mandy receives all of the request submissions and forwards them to the REC director and facilities lead (Sam Goodman).
Please keep this in mind when writing your request and ask nicely!