## Meetings {.page_break_before}

### Individual Meetings
I attempt to meet individually with all lab members for about an hour each week.
The goal of the weekly meeting is to discuss research challenges and plan strategy.
Individual meetings can be in person or via Zoom--bring your computer if the meeting is in person.
You are responsible for updating OneNote prior to the meeting with what you accomplished over the last week and what tasks you aim to complete by the next week.
A product of the meeting is a list of what you want to do before the next meeting.
By default, I do not reschedule individual meetings due to scheduling conflicts, but I will annotate your OneNote page to answer any questions or provide insights.

### Weekly Lab Meetings
The Rife Lab holds a joint weekly lab meeting with the Hershberger Lab at PDREC.
Weekly lab meetings (~1 hour) are meant to be a forum for trainees to present project ideas and/or data to get feedback from the rest of the group.
Each lab member is expected to present at lab meeting at least once every semester.
These meetings are informal, and you can do what you wish with your slot – just be prepared to contribute something substantive.
Projects at any level of completion can benefit from being presented.
Lab meetings can also be used to talk about methods, statistical analyses, new papers, career development, or as an opportunity to prepare for conference presentations and give people feedback on job talks or other external presentations.
Lab members are expected to attend every meeting (barring excused absences due to illnesses, doctor appointments, family issues, etc.).

### Weekly Developer Meetings
The Rife Lab holds a weekly developer meeting (~1 hour).
These meetings serve as a forum to discuss upcoming changes to software being developed in the lab.
Developers are limited to 10m to discuss what they are working on, give quick demos, and solicit feedback from participants.
The second half of these meetings are an opportunity to provide support to external users or research groups that join the meeting.
All developers are expected to attend and participate in every meeting (barring excused absences due to illnesses, doctor appointments, family issues, etc.).

### Journal Club
Journal club is an opportunity for lab members to strengthen their ability to comprehend and critically analyze published research.
For these meetings, lab members are expected to read an assigned paper and attend with comments and questions about the reserach.
Let Trevor know if you have a specific topic or paper that you're interested in discussing at lab meeting.