## Field and Greenhouse {.page_break_before}
 
### Greenhouse
You are responsible for taking care of your plants.
You must be trained before using the soil mixer.
Discuss with Trevor before submitting [Greenhouse work order requests](https://www.clemson.edu/cafls/peedee/employees/greenhouse.html) for specific projects.
[Jonathan K Windham](jwindha@clemson.edu) is the greenhouse manager and should be contacted for greenhouse questions or clarifications.

### Germplasm Storage
Germplasm is stored in the cooler in the field lab.
If you are performing an experiment and determine there is insufficinet source seed avaialable, contact Trevor and do not use all of the remaining seeds.
Keep the cooler door shut when not moving seed between rooms.

### Land Requests
Land use at the PDREC is allocated by the Land Use Committee, which includes the station Director, Farm Manager, and three resident faculty and/or extension associates.
If you need land for an experiment, let Trevor know as soon as possible.

Required details include:
* Field number (see the [PDREC field map](/forms-and-docs/PDREC_land_requests/2018%20PDREC%20Field%20map%20with%20numbers.pdf))
* Portion of field needed
* Project title
* Project start and end dates (for the specific field trial)
* Crop
* Irrigation needed?

Land use decisions are made at the beginning of the calendar year, so if we do not request land at that time, we cannot be guaranteed space.
Fields are assigned by the PDREC Land Use Committee. 
Irrigated fields must be requested using the PDREC Land Use form approximately seven months before desired planting date.

### PDREC Farm Crew
The PDREC farm crew will assist individual projects with field preparation, planting, and maintenance.
The farm crew will help as needed, but **do not expect the farm crew to perform data collection for you.**
The farm crew works from ~7am-3pm ET, so plan accordingly if you need assistance with your field experiments.

### Field Experiments
Experiments should be designed to be easily analyzed, control error, and give reasonable assurance that the differences between treatments will be detected.
For general breeding experiments, Trevor will provide a trial layout file one month before the planting date.
Reproducible R scripts (with set seeds) should be used to design your field experiments.
Write out the statistical model you will use to analyze your data when you are designing your experiment.
When in doubt, consult a statistician.

### Phenotyping
Decide on the phenotypes to capture as the experiment is being designed.
Use public ontologies to select traits and follow the methods described there to capture the phenotypes.
Do not create your own method unless you have double checked that existing methods do not meet your needs.
Be consistent with phenotyping methods within the lab and especially within a field trial. 
Inconsistency can compromise the validity of your results.

We use [Field Book](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.fieldbook.tracker) for all phenotyping in the lab.
The lab will provide Android phones or tablets for data collection, but you are in charge of keeping track of your tablet and making sure it is charging when you leave for the day.
Do not collect phenotype notes on paper. 
Consult the official [Field book documentation](https://docs.fieldbook.phenoapps.org/en/latest/field-book.html) to learn about the app and various features available.
In most cases, date, numeric, boolean, and categorical trait types can capture the information needed but text traits should be avoided since they can be difficult to analyze.
If you find a bug in the app, report it by creating an issue on [GitHub](https://github.com/PhenoApps/Field-Book/issues).

### Barcodes
To increase throughput and minimize mistakes, barcodes are used throughout the breeding program in the Rife Lab.
Barcode labels can be prepared with Bartender software.
When preparing barcoded labels for your germplasm or plants, you should use one of the defined templates to ensure continuity in the lab.
These templates should not be edited by students or postdocs.
For field activities, two sets of labels should be printed: a poly one for stakes and a paper one for seed envelopes.

#### Label maker software
- Breedbase label creation tool
  - Requires Breedbase instance
  - Assumes 203dpi, so if you have a 300dpi printer, multiply the pixel dimensions by 3/2
- [Bartender](https://www.seagullscientific.com)
  - Commercial software requires license (Starter edition sufficient for most programs)
  - Works out of the box (no need to worry about dpi)
  - Labels are highly customizable
  - Compatible with Excel and CSV files
- [qrlabelr](https://github.com/awkena/qrlabelr)
  - Free, open-source R package and Shiny app developed by the Geoff Morris Lab at Colorado State University
  - Input field layout file in CSV, XLS, or XLSX formats
- Other free online generators typically lack specialized layouts and batch processing
- Custom scripts can be made to format label content into ZPL