## Coding {.page_break_before}

All code from the lab should be well-documented and maintained under version control and will be shared along with data for all lab manuscripts.
All analyses should be entirely reproducible and well-documented in the form of makefiles, shell scripts, or other automation approaches that allow analyses to be automatically performed.
These scripts, including those to generate figures will be included in repositories (see "Getting Code into RifeLab Repositories") and made publicly available with a preprint or manuscript submission.
Depending on the application, we write code Kotlin, Java, R, or Python; code for visualization should be in be Python or R.

### Version Control
Our primary version control service is GitHub, and we have an organization called [`RifeLab`](https://github.com/RifeLab) there.
Lab members are expected to maintain their code in repositories within the RifeLab organization.
When you join the lab, a repo with your name will be created and used as long-term storage for your research outputs.
Project-specific repositories should be created to organize project files, simplify the process of reproducibility, and serve as a means of publishing analyses.
Contributions to project respositories should be made using pull requests to facilitate code review (see below).

#### Creating a RifeLab Project Repository
1.  Create a repository within the organization.
1.  Fork this repository into one under your user account.
1.  Make commits to your own repository, and move code back to the `RifeLab` repository through pull requests (see below).

#### Getting Code into RifeLab Repositories
Code moves from user repositories to `RifeLab` repositories through a process of code review that is handled through pull requests.
The process is described briefly below.
Feel free to ask for guidance if you are uncomfortable with the process.
**We will revoke write access for failing to adhere to these rules.**

1.  Make local changes to your code and commit them to your repository.
1.  Create a pull request into the repository owned by `RifeLab`.
1.  Name potential reviewers for your pull request.
1.  Once at least one lab member has approved your pull request, your pull request can be merged. The only exception to this policy is this repository (`lab-manual`) where, in addition to the above rules, Trevor must also approve the pull request.

#### Composition of Pull Requests
Each pull request may contain one or more changesets.
In keeping with good source control practice, each changeset or commit should contain *all* changes necessary for a particular fix or update.
In addition, each pull request should relate to no more than one functional area in the code base you are updating.
Keeping the pull request focused to one area makes it easier for your reviewers to provide thoughtful feedback.

#### Reviewing Pull Requests
All lab members are expected to participate in code review when it matches your expertise.
If you get named by the submitter, it's courteous to review the request.
A checklist is available to help facilitate and guide code review.
As a reviewer, you are responsible for making sure that all checklist guidelines are followed.

#### Failed Projects
Some repositories will contain project failures (e.g. proof-of-concepts that didn't work).
This is ideal.
Being able to find them will make sure we don't make the same failure twice.

#### Non-Code Versioning
Non-code documents should be kept in a place that maintains version history.
Clemson provides [Box](https://clemson.box.com/) for these purposes.

### Licensing
We release as many research outputs as possible under permissive open licenses to ensure our research is reusable and reproducible with minimal legal barriers.
The default license for software that should be applied to new lab related repositories is the [GPL 3](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html).
In certain cases, a funding agency or other upstream restrictions may require alternative licensing.


### Commenting Code
All code written by lab members should be appropriately commented to ensure others can understand the functionality and help when debugging issues.

[Rules for commenting scripts](https://stackoverflow.blog/2021/07/05/best-practices-for-writing-code-comments/):

1. Comments should not duplicate the code.
1. Good comments do not excuse unclear code.
1. If you can’t write a clear comment, there may be a problem with the code.
1. Comments should dispel confusion, not cause it.
1. Explain unidiomatic code in comments.
1. Provide links to the original source of copied code.
1. Include links to external references where they will be most helpful.
1. Add comments when fixing bugs.
1. Use comments to mark incomplete implementations.