## Writing {.page_break_before}

Written communication skills are one of the most important skills in academia. 
Graduate students and postdocs are expected to draft their own manuscripts and work with Trevor to make iterative revisions.
In the Rife Lab, **a citation manager is required** for all manuscripts.
Examples of citation managers include Zotero (preferred), Mendeley, Endnote, Paperpile, etc.

### Naming and Formatting
When naming files to send to Trevor or external collaboratorss, include your name and a date in the filename (e.g., `hersh_cv_20240917.docx`).
I will generally append my initials to file names after making comments (e.g., `hersh_cv_20240917_twr`).
Once you have incorporated changes, the file can be renamed with the current date before sending for comment.

Draft manuscripts are required to have the following:
* Line and page numbers
* Full author list to help clarify any authorship issues or concerns
* Placeholders for all sections (i.e., introduction, methods, results, discussion, etc.) even if they are empty
* Styles, especially for headings, to help organization and simplify formatting
* Figures in the body of the manuscript

Any of the above formatting can be modified prior to journal submission, but these formatting guidelines should be followed to facilitate consistent internal formatting and simplify revisions.

### Content
Draft manuscripts should be free of most spelling and grammatical errors--especially prior to sending out to collaborators.
Scientific manuscripts should generally be written entirely in the past tense.
Lab members are available to help proofread and explain why certain words or phrases should be used.
Reading manuscripts out loud to yourself is a good approach to catch sentences with missing words, grammatical mistakes, or sentences with subject-verb disagreement.
Manuscripts with copious amounts of grammatical errors or sloppy writing may be returned to you without being reviewed.

When writing, do your best to use clear and concise language and structure that is easy to read:
* You never have to write “in this study”.
* “Figure 1 shows the relationship between A and B. This relationship is linear.” VS. “The relationship between A and B is linear (Fig. 1).”
* "Past research (Einstein, 1905) showed that space and time are linked." VS. "Space and time are linked (Einstein, 1905)."
* If you do not use an abbreviation in your manuscript, do not define it.
* Avoid using adjectives that make a result seem more important or extreme. "Assessing wheat baking quality is very expensive" VS. "Assessing wheat baking quality is expensive"
* Ensure the words you use are unambigious (e.g., "bimonthly" is defined as occurring twice a month or every two months)
* Ensure the subject of a sentence is clear. "This will require method development" VS. "This new rule will require method development"
* Do not start sentences with abbreviations

### Figures
Once we have determined the structure for a figure, work to make it as polished as possible before sending to me for review so that I can provide comprehensive and helpful feedback.
If you give me something unfinished, I will likely tell you things you already know.
Figures should be entirely reproducible from code and should generally be saved as vector files (PDF or EPS).
EPS files can be modified in Adobe Illustrator or other image-editing program.
I will not review or publish figures made in Microsoft Excel.

### Submissions
Manuscripts from the Rife Lab will be preferentially submitted to pre-print servers and published in open access journals.
You are required to send a manuscript to all authors at least two weeks before submitting it to give them an opportunity to comment. Page proofs should be reviewed carefully for mistakes (especially references).

### Authorship
Our lab follows the [Clemson Authorship Policy](https://media.clemson.edu/research/orc/rcr/rcr-authorship.pdf).
Many journals now require the assignment of [CRediT](https://credit.niso.org) roles to each author (Conceptualization; Data curation, Formal Analysis, Funding acquisition, Investigation, Methodology, Project administration, Resources, Software, Supervision, Validation, Visualization, Writing – original draft, Writing – review & editing).
Since projects evolve over time and authorship inclusion and order are re-evaluated accordingly, it is good practice to assign these roles to each author of manuscripts you lead.
If you feel that your contributions to another's work merit authorship but you have not been included as an author, please discuss this with Trevor.

### References
* [10 rules for writing a paper](https://www.science.org/content/article/how-write-research-paper)
* Writing Science, by Joshua Schimel
* [File naming guidelines](http://www2.stat.duke.edu/~rcs46/lectures_2015/01-markdown-git/slides/naming-slides/naming-slides.pdf.)