## Conferences, Presentations, and Travel {.page_break_before}

### Conferences
All lab members are encouraged to attend at least one conference per year to present a poster or talk related to research being performed in the Rife Lab.
Travel grants are often available through multiple sources including the department, university, or organizing conference and lab members are expected to apply for these opportunities to help cover travel expenses.
Members of the lab regularly attend the ACS Tri-Society Meeting, Plant and Animal Genome Conference, and the National Association of Plant Breeding Annual Meeting.
Lab members can attend other conferences that are topical to your research projects and align with the supporting grants.
Members who are invited to conferences or other meetings with their costs covered are welcome to accept such invitations.

### Abstracts
Anyone planning to submit an abstract for a conference, symposium, etc. must first clear this with Trevor and circulate the abstract to all authors at least one week before the submission deadline. **Failure to meet this deadline will result in you not attending the event.**

### Presentations
Scientific career progression is heavily dependent on your ability to effectively present your research.
It is therefore highly encouraged that you seek opportunities to regularly present your research, whether it is at a departmental level, to other labs (within or outside of Clemson), at conferences, or to the general public.
Every time you present your work, you are representing the entire lab.
Practice talks will help you feel comfortable with your presentation and allow you to get direct feedback from the lab.
If you are going to give a presentation, be prepared to give a practice presentation to the lab prior to your real presentation (at least one week for posters, two weeks for conference presentations, and four weeks for job talks).

#### Posters
Posters must be circulated to all authors at least one week before the printing deadline.
Templates for posters will be available, and you can use those as much or as little as you’d like.
Some general rules for posters should be followed: minimize text as much as possible, make figures and text large and easy to see at a distance, label your axes, and make sure different colors are easily discriminable.
Make sure to double and triple check that your dimensions match the requested size and orientation for your event (especially orientation!).

#### Oral Presentations
For oral presentations, watching online seminars from scientists in the field is a good way to refine your presentation style and content.
Trevor is happy to share slides from some of his talks if you would like to use a similar style.
As with posters, feel free to go with your own style as long as it is polished and clear.
Internal practice talks should use your final slides and be near the right length to ensure feedback is as helpful as possible.

### Travel
All work-related travel must adhere to the [Clemson travel guidelines](https://www.clemson.edu/procurement/concurtravel/index.html), the [Clemson Travel Procedure](https://clemsonpub.cfmnetwork.com/B.aspx?BookId=11116&PageId=456901), and the [Clemson Travel Policy](https://clemsonpub.cfmnetwork.com/B.aspx?BookId=11123&PageId=456919).
All overnight travel requires university pre-approval through a travel request.
Reimbursements for university-related travel are made entirely through [Concur](https://www.concursolutions.com).
Per diem follows the GSA rates and can be found [here](https://www.gsa.gov/travel/plan-book/per-diem-rates).
To add per diem to your travel request, choose the "Travel Allowance" option.